feat(arithmetic): Add docs for the new equations feature (#3865)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/discover-queries/query-builder/query-equations.mdx

---
title: "Adding Query Equations"
sidebar_order: 10
---

<Note>

This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony.

If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

</Note>

> In **Discover**, you can create equations based on the columns of your query. Each column acts like a variable since it represents the result of the query, which is a number. This number is used in the equation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In **Discover**, you can add equations based on numeric columns calculated in your query. These columns can be used as input variables into your equation.
```

Reviewer 2: @wmak - let's discuss this edit; i want to make sure we keep this language really simple, but maybe there's a middle ground between the suggestion from @shruthilayaj and our original text.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In **Discover**, you can add equations based on your query columns. Each column acts like a variable since it represents the numeric result of the query, and this number is used in the equation.
```

For example, let's take an equation that calculates the ratio of a transaction's first contentful paint (`measurements.fcp`) to the transaction's largest contentful paint (`measurements.lcp`):

equation = `measurements.fcp / measurements.lcp`

> The equation will take the result of each of those query columns and use those numbers in the calculation. In this case, the results of those query columns are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The equation will use the result of `measurements.fcp` and `measurements.lcp` to calculate the ratio. For example. if the result of those query columns are:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The equation will use the result of each of those query columns to calculate the ratio. In this case, the results of those query columns are:
```

- measurements.fcp = 50
- measurements.lcp = 100

> So the equation becomes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The equation will compute:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The equation becomes:
```

`50 / 100`

The result of the equation is then displayed in the updated table as shown in the recording below:

![Adding an equation in discover](./add_equation.gif)

These equations can help you calculate things like:

- [The percentage of transactions that completed within a threshold](#calculate-a-status-percentage)
- [A custom Apdex score](/#calculate-a-custom-apdex)

> - [The average non-database times](#find-largest-average-non-database-times)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [The largest average non-database times](#find-largest-average-non-database-times)
```

To add an equation to a query:

1. Click the "Columns" button to open the column editor.
2. If they aren't already included in your query, add the columns you need for your equation.
3. Click "Add an Equation".
4. Enter your equation by selecting columns, entering numbers (if needed), and adding operators.
5. Click "Apply".

## Guidelines for Equations

Equations must:

- Contain at least one field or function
- Contain at least one operator
- Have explicit operators. For example, `a(a+b)` is invalid; instead, you should enter `a * (a + b)`

Equations cannot:

> - Contain a mix of fields or functions

Reviewer: ?
```suggestion
- Contain a mix of fields and functions
```

> - Contain exponents which aren't supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contain exponents, which aren't supported
```

Equations will follow expected order of operations, resolving brackets first, division and multiplication next followed by addition and subtraction. Equations can also include negative numbers.

> Equations can only operate on columns and functions that are numbers, which includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Equations can only operate on numeric columns and functions, which includes:
```

- Functions:
    - count
    - count_unique
    - count_if
    - failure_count
    - avg
    - sum
    - percentiles (p50, p75 etc.)
    - apdex
    - user_misery
    - eps() and epm()
- Fields
    - transaction.duration
    - measurements.fp
    - measurements.fcp
    - measurements.lcp
    - measurements.fid
    - measurements.cls
    - measurements.ttfb
    - spans.browser
    - spans.http
    - spans.db
    - spans.resource

## Example Equations

> ### Calculate a status percentage

Reviewer 2: This title isn't super clear. If you update the heading, don't forget to update the anchored link as well.

```suggestion
### Calculate the percentage of transactions completed
```

Get the percentage of transactions that completed within a threshold

1. Create a new query with the following three columns:
    - Column 1:
        - Function  `count_if`
        - Field `transaction.duration`
        - Condition `is less than or equal to`
        - Set final parameter to a threshold (like 300)
    - Column 2:
        - Function `count`
    - Column 3:
        - Field `transaction`
2. Add an equation and enter  `count_if(transaction.duration,lessOrEquals,300) / count() * 100` in the equation field.

### Calculate a custom Apdex

> Apdex is defined as (satisfied + tolerable*0.5 + frustrated*0)/total. If you wanted to change the the weight of tolerable to 0.2, you would create the following query and equation.

Reviewer: formatting is weird
![Screen Shot 2021-07-13 at 11 20 41 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/63818634/125478818-dccb17d7-5fde-4ccf-be8f-484f4c248274.png)

Reviewer: link to the apdex documentation here?

1. Create a new query with the following four columns:
    - Column 1:
        - Function `count_if`
        - Field  `transaction.duration`
        - Condition `is less than or equal to`
        - Set the final parameter to a Satisfied threshold (like 300)
    - Column 2:
        - Function `count_if`
        - Field `transaction.duration`
        - Condition `is less than or equal to`
        - Set the final parameter to a Tolerable threshold (like 1200)
    - Column 3:
        - Function `Count()`
    - Column 4:
        - Field  `transaction`

> 2. Add an equation and enter the following in the equation field:

Reviewer: "Add an equation" -> can we change this to "Click the 'Add Equation' button" in the instructions?

Reviewer 2: We've already spelled out the steps previously and we're not spelling out every step in these examples, so it would make for a non-parallel structure

>     `(count_if(transaction.duration,lessOrEquals,300) + (count_if(transaction.duration,lessOrEquals,1200) - count_if(transaction.duration,lessOrEquals,300)) * 0.2)/count()`

Reviewer: should we add the "frustrated" part here in this equation just so it mirrors the equation you've defined above?

Reviewer: also aliasing would be so sweet in this case 😭

Author: I considered it, but it was already way too long of a query so I wanted to keep it short 😞
